Deutsche Telekom continues to expand its plans in the field of blockchain (Web 3) technology. Its subsidiary, Deutsche Telekom MMS, joined the Energy Web Foundation’s established ecosystem of energy majors and IT service providers as a validator of the Energy Web Chain. The goal of Energy Web is to accelerate global efforts to transition towards a global economy based on efficiency and renewable energy. 

Deutsche Telekom supports the shift to renewable energies

 As a member and infrastructure provider for the Energy Web ecosystem, Deutsche Telekom is contributing to enhanced network security for the Energy Web Chain - the world’s first public blockchain designed explicitly for the energy Sector - and by extension all enterprise software solutions that leverage the Energy Web technology stack. Energy Web solutions are designed to unlock a more decentralized, digitalized, and decarbonized energy system. “Green Proof” solutions in the Energy Web ecosystems bring radical transparency to new green product supply chains while Data Exchange solutions enable small-scale clean energy assets like electric vehicles and rooftop solar systems to be networked together and used to maintain grid stability. "The Energy Web's collaboration with Deutsche Telekom shows that blockchain technology can be an important tool in the fight against climate change," says Dirk Röder, Head of Deutsche Telekom's Blockchain Solutions Center. "Deutsche Telekom is not only securing the energy grid, but also accelerating progress towards climate targets while promoting renewable energies." “Established, trusted digital infrastructure providers like Deutsche Telekom are key players when it comes to helping some of the world’s largest energy companies digitize in order to manage increasingly renewable and complex energy systems. We are proud to have them in Energy Web ecosystem,” said Jesse Morris, CEO of Energy Web. 

Video

 Sorry, we are not allowed to show you this content due to your cookie settings.