T-Systems announced today that it will offer External Key Management for customers using AWS Cloud. The new service will see T-Systems authorize and manage access to data on behalf of its customers. T-Systems is an AWS Premier Consulting and Security Competency Partner. The Deutsche Telekom business customer subsidiary will create and store the encryption keys in its EU-based data centers, outside of AWS infrastructure. External Key Management offers customers an added level of control over their data. This is especially relevant for organizations based in the EU that wish to run sensitive workloads in the cloud. Encryption keys are created and stored on modern certified hardware that is solely owned and hosted by T-Systems in its own data centers. T-Systems ensures end-to-end performance, confidentiality, availability and integrity of the external encryption keys for its customers’ data in the AWS Cloud. Customers have full control and visibility over key creation, location and distribution. These processes are seamless and can be used with over 100 different AWS Services. The solution was trialled amongst a select group of clients. "The results of these tests were positive,” explains Martin Hignett, Chief Technical Officer at SaaS provider ITONICS. “The External Key Management solution enables us to encrypt our data with encryption keys managed inside the EU, in compliance with Schrems II.” “The External Key Management solution underscores T-Systems’ commitment to delivering high standards of compliance and privacy for European industry and the public sector,” explains Telekom Board of Management member and T-Systems CEO Adel Al-Saleh. “This valuable addition to our cloud portfolio strengthens our collaboration with AWS and our customers’ access to a multi-cloud landscape tailored to their needs.” With External Key Management by T-Systems, organisations in the EU will continue to benefit from the security, speed, innovation and breadth of services AWS offers, combined with the confidence that best practices for data protection in the cloud are adequately implemented. The service is a new addition to Data Protection as a Managed Service, which T-Systems announced in March 2022. This media information contains forward-looking statements that reflect the current views of Deutsche Telekom management with respect to future events. They are generally identified by the words “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “aim,” “goal,” “plan,” “will,” “seek,” “outlook,” or similar expressions and include generally any information that relates to expectations or targets for revenue, adjusted EBITDA AL, or other performance measures. Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates, and projections, and should therefore be considered with caution. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond Deutsche Telekom’s control. They include, for instance, the progress of Deutsche Telekom’s staff-related restructuring measures and the impact of other significant strategic or business initiatives, including acquisitions, dispositions, and business combinations. In addition, movements in exchange rates and interest rates, regulatory rulings, stronger than expected competition, technological change, litigation and regulatory developments, among other factors, may have a material adverse effect on costs and revenue development. If these or other risks and uncertainties materialize, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, Deutsche Telekom’s actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Deutsche Telekom can offer no assurance that its expectations or targets will be achieved. Without prejudice to existing obligations under capital market law, Deutsche Telekom does not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements to account for new information or future events or anything else. In addition to figures prepared in accordance with IFRS, Deutsche Telekom presents alternative performance measures, e.g., EBITDA, EBITDA AL, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA AL, adjusted EBITDA margin AL, Core EBITDA, adjusted EBIT, EBIT margin, adjusted net profit/loss, adjusted earnings per share, free cash flow, free cash flow AL, gross debt, and net debt. These measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with IFRS. Alternative performance measures are not subject to IFRS or any other generally accepted accounting principles. Other companies may define these terms in different ways.