T-Systems announced today that is has achieved an Identity and Access management distinction in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Security Competency. This designation recognizes that T-Systems has demonstrated and successfully met AWS’s technical and quality requirements for providing customers with a deep level of software and consulting expertise in Identity and Access Management to help them achieve their cloud security goals. The AWS Security Competency underscores T-Systems’ commitment to delivering data protection services to the highest standard. Achieving the Identity and Access management distinction in the AWS Security Competency differentiates T-Systems as an AWS Partner that provides specialized consulting services designed to help companies from startups and mid-sized businesses to the largest global enterprises to adopt, develop and deploy security into their AWS environments increasing their overall security posture on AWS. To receive the designation, partners must possess deep AWS expertise and deliver solutions seamlessly on AWS. AWS established the AWS Competency Program to help customers identify AWS Partners with deep industry experience and expertise. As a Premier Partner and Managed Service Provider (MSP), T-Systems has already proven success in meeting AWS’s technical requirements and working with a large number of customers at scale. In March this year, T-Systems worked with AWS to offer Data Protection as a Managed Service on AWS. Through the offering, T-Systems using its expert knowledge of localized needs will manage encryption, and create and implement transparent residency controls. Data is managed and protected in adherence to European regulations such as the GDPR and Schrems II judgement, while customers also benefit from the innovation, speed, scalability, breadth and depth offered by AWS cloud. One of the first customers for Data Protection as a Managed Service is Cargodian. The young company from Bavaria offers next generation trade financing based on blockchain technology. Says founder and CEO Peter Selmayr: “The challenge was to implement our business model deploying state-of-the-art technology solutions fully cloud-based, accessible for our customers globally, applying European data governance. T-Systems’ expertise in Data Protection on AWS and clarity of what measures are specifically relevant to our use case has been instrumental in helping us move forward at the right pace." T-Systems’ successful path with AWS began in 2018. By May 2020, T-Systems became part of the AWS MSP Program. This security distinction sits alongside premier partner status for T-Systems as a Managed Service Provider and Direct Connect Partner, as well as in migration competency, SAP competency and the well-architected partner program. T-Systems plans to continue driving value for its customers through its strong relationship with AWS, expanding its managed cloud solutions – with a strong commitment to security and data privacy. This media information contains forward-looking statements that reflect the current views of Deutsche Telekom management with respect to future events. They are generally identified by the words “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “aim,” “goal,” “plan,” “will,” “seek,” “outlook,” or similar expressions and include generally any information that relates to expectations or targets for revenue, adjusted EBITDA AL, or other performance measures. Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates, and projections, and should therefore be considered with caution. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and are generally beyond Deutsche Telekom’s control. They include, for instance, the progress of Deutsche Telekom’s staff-related restructuring measures and the impact of other significant strategic or business initiatives, including acquisitions, dispositions, and business combinations. In addition, movements in exchange rates and interest rates, regulatory rulings, stronger than expected competition, technological change, litigation and regulatory developments, among other factors, may have a material adverse effect on costs and revenue development. If these or other risks and uncertainties materialize, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, Deutsche Telekom’s actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Deutsche Telekom can offer no assurance that its expectations or targets will be achieved. Without prejudice to existing obligations under capital market law, Deutsche Telekom does not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements to account for new information or future events or anything else. In addition to figures prepared in accordance with IFRS, Deutsche Telekom presents alternative performance measures, e.g., EBITDA, EBITDA AL, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA AL, adjusted EBITDA margin AL, Core EBITDA, adjusted EBIT, EBIT margin, adjusted net profit/loss, adjusted earnings per share, free cash flow, free cash flow AL, gross debt, and net debt. These measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the information prepared in accordance with IFRS. Alternative performance measures are not subject to IFRS or any other generally accepted accounting principles. Other companies may define these terms in different ways.