Deutsche Telekom and Google Cloud today announced a new expanded partnership to define a joint roadmap for the telecommunications industry bringing the power of the cloud closer to mobile and connected devices at the edge of Deutsche Telekom’s network. Communication service providers are reimagining their network infrastructures with companies like Google Cloud to develop new network deployment models. By creating more secure, reliable, and scalable cloud-native networks, companies like Deutsche Telekom are better positioned to deliver elastic, high-capacity, high-bandwidth, and low-latency connectivity and value added services to their customers. The first step of this expanded partnership between Deutsche Telekom and Google Cloud will focus on the following areas: Core Network Services: Deutsche Telekom and Google Cloud will jointly pilot several network services such as 5G Standalone in Austria, as well as remote packet gateway functions, leveraging Google Cloud and Google Distributed Cloud Edge, a fully managed product that brings Google Cloud’s infrastructure and services closer to where data is being generated and consumed. “At Deutsche Telekom we are implementing our Leading Digital Telco strategy by investing in best-in-class network infrastructure and by establishing cloud-based service platforms,” says Claudia Nemat, board member of Deutsche Telekom. “We are excited to expand our partnership with Google Cloud by conducting trials in key areas that will allow us to more rapidly innovate and launch new services and customer experiences.” “Communication service providers are increasingly looking for cloud-native solutions to advance the deployment of network functions and drive automation, elasticity, and scalability,” said Thomas Kurian, CEO, Google Cloud. “We believe our partnership with Deutsche Telekom will deliver significantly improved experiences for end users that will ultimately raise the standard for the telecommunications industry.” Deutsche Telekom has been working with Google for many years. In autumn 2021, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Systems teamed up with Google Cloud to build and deliver sovereign cloud services to German public sector, enterprises, and healthcare firms. The first joint solution is already available to T-Systems customers. About Google Cloud Google Cloud accelerates every organization’s ability to digitally transform its business. We deliver enterprise-grade solutions that leverage Google’s cutting-edge technology – all on the cleanest cloud in the industry. Customers in more than 200 countries and territories turn to Google Cloud as their trusted partner to enable growth and solve their most critical business problems.